# Sean Humm
## May 14th, 2022
I took much of the structure from doggr and used it to begin mapping out our project. My initial idea is to have a Profile type with age, sex, ethnicity, and lifeExpectancy. The demographic data will be taken in and a lifeExpectancy value will be determined. I was able to make a form that allows the user to input the various demographic options. When the user hits submit data, the form attributes are sent to localhost:9000/api/vi in anticipation of the backend to receive and store the info in a database. 
I tried to clean up all the unused/commented out code so that the only code is code that we are actually utilizing. My next goal is to get the lifeExpectancy to show when the user submits their data. After that, I will use a random number generator to determine a fake lifeExpectancy, so that I will have a sample number to begin the generation of boxes that will represent the number of weeks left. 
## May 16th, 2022
I began today by cleaning up some uncommented out code then began the process of generating a random life expectancy. I decided that it was unnecessary to have a “Profile” type with age, sex, and ethnicity. Instead it will just have a weeksLeft number type that will hold the random number. I wanted to make sure that the weeksLeft value is shown only when the user submits their data. Now that I’ve gotten the weeksLeft to display, I need a way to create a visual representation of it. My initial idea is to create an array and fill it with “x” equal to the weeksLeft. I feel as if I’m able to get an array of “x”, I’ll be able to convert that to more of a box representation later.
Getting the visual representation was easier than I thought. Our idea is to have the boxes represent one week. These boxes will either be styled with Flexbox or Grid, so my initial idea is to create a <div> for each week where we can use a “ “(space) to get the individual boxes to display. From there, we’d have to style a container for the boxes. I’ll have to look more into how to map the array to be wrapped in a “box” div. 
## May 18th, 2002
After searching around on google I think I found a way to get the boxes to display as I would like them to. We will use the map function to wrap each entry in the weeks array around a <div> which will then be called when the page is rendered. I also cleaned up some CSS that wasn’t being used. Now that we’ve gotten a visual representation of the weeks I can begin work on the grad requirement to get a microservice in another language going. I’m going to implement a comment section for users to share their Life Expectancy with other users. I have some experience writing a Flask application and am very comfortable with Python, so I think this is an obvious choice to go with. The only thing I’m feeling anxious about is getting the microservice in a different language hooked up with our current project. It’s not very clear how this is supposed to work so I think I’m going to have to spend some time researching how to go about this. 
## May 21st, 2022
After doing some research it appears I need to create a new Axios request to where the python application will be listening on. From there, the python application should be able to handle the requested data and store it into a data structure. I’ll begin with the easier stuff such as creating a form for the comments and try my best to mimic the Axios request with the one we currently use that will store the user profile. After that I’ll begin the process of developing the python backend.
## May 23rd, 2002
My initial goal is to begin with an array data structure just so that I can be sure that the data is being received and retrieved correctly. I used Postman to ensure that requests to the python app were able to be serviced and everything worked seemingly well. I ran into a lot of issues when I realized that I would need to enable the Access-Control-Allow-Origin header. This actually caused me a lot of trouble. I couldn’t seem to get the header set properly. I had to take a look at the doggr code to see how it was implemented and I came to the conclusion that the python app itself has to be enabled to allow CORS. Despite this, simple mistakes made it difficult to gauge my process. Up until now I felt as if my code was very unorganized - in particular the naming of “comments.” Somewhere along the line I started using “message” and “comment” interchangeably. I also had “/comment” and “/comments” as different URL paths. So, despite having CORS enabled on the app, I was still getting errors stating it wasn’t enabled. It took me a while to realize these mistakes, but once I was able to get everything fixed up I could send and receive comments into the array. I had the python app display comments on its own “/comment” url to verify everything was working properly, but I’m still unsure how to get the requested data back to our main app. I ultimately was able to get the comments to display back into the console.log. My next step is to figure out a way to get them all displayed onto the page. 
## May 24th, 2022
Now that I’m feeling comfortable with sending and receiving comments between the frontend and backend, my next step is to use a database to store the information. I’ve decided to use SQL as I’m most familiar with this type of query language. It wasn’t too difficult to get this part implemented.
## May 25th, 2022
Mostly just cleaning up code today. I feel like I’m gaining a better understanding of how everything flows and realized I was initializing a lot of variables that I never actually call. I rewrote most of the code to hopefully provide a clearer picture of what is going on. I still need to figure out how to display all comments, but hope to attend office hours to get some feedback.
## May 26th, 2022
I found this site (https://levelup.gitconnected.com/fetch-api-data-with-axios-and-display-it-in-a-react-app-with-hooks-3f9c8fa89e7b) which describes how to retrieve sets of data from the backend and display it all back onto the page. It was actually a lot easier than I anticipated. Now that I’ve got this set up, my next goals is to get the Docker containerization setup and style the comment section so that everything isn’t just centered down the middle of the screen. 
Tonight I ran into a lot of issues pushing my changes to the group repo. I’m not sure how it happened, but James says my main diverged from the upstream and that I merged the upstream repo into my local and then tried to merge it back upstream. Really not sure how all that happened, but I finally managed to get my updates incorporated.
## May 27th, 2022
Now that all the comments can be loaded, I need to include some error checking. If there are no comments in the database, then the page has issues loading. So following the previous link, I incorporated a little check to see if there’s anything in the database. Things seem to work fine, but I still need to create the Docker container for it and fix up the styles.
## May 31st, 2022
I got the initial docker file to work and am able to send and retrieve requests, however the function to display the comments is no longer working. I’m getting an error message saying that there is no “map” function, which I find very confusing. I’m not sure what is causing this as it was working fine before setting up the container, but it’s something I’ll have to look more into. 

# James Ressler
## May 4, 2022
I initialized the repository with some boilerplate based off the doggr class project. I also outlined a basic directory structure for the project and created contribution guidelines for easy collaboration. I began exploring Github Actions and protected branches. I was a little slow setting up branch protections for main, which is why there are early commits directly to main. This shouldn’t be an issue so early in the development, especially since there isn’t a trace of continuous deployment set up yet.
## May 11, 2022
I implemented the first draft of CI with an automated build action for the frontend. After successful tests, I added a similar action for the backend. Tests are set to trigger on push events.
## May 16, 2022
Fleshed out the Github Actions for the frontend and backend build tests. I also played around with an action to test whether the dockerfile could spin up the docker image correctly.

This was also the stage where I made the decision to create an organization for the project and restrict contribution to pull requests. All actions were also required to pass successfully before new code could be merged.
## May 17, 2022
I did some cleanup and minor bug fixes here. Finished implementing the docker build action.
## May 25, 2022
This far into the project it has become clear that some of our early choices were made in ignorance. Some of these decisions are easier to remember than others. This can mostly be attributed to learning as we go. In order to not triple or quadruple the work involved we are working around some of the design flaws that are easier to deal with.
One of these issues revolves around auth. I made efforts to emulate a sort of doggr auth in our project. I ran into many issues with how we have set up our routes and database, as well as a particularly irksome bug that has something to do with how the form is submitted. I will need to figure this issue out.

I also looked into changing some UI/UX design with the lifespan display but my initial assumptions lead to a dead end. Not a critical failure since the current UI is working, but a lot of wasted effort on my part.

## Finishing Touches
I updated the README to include installation and run instructions. I also added docker containers for the frontend and backend. I had to deal with an especially annoying sync issue with `package-lock.json` that was resolved by deleting both the frontend and backend file and running `npm install` to generate fresh package locks. After that the sync issue disappeared.

I made some minor changes to the way login and user creation works too. The initial implementation was flawed since I created it with little knowledge of how it works and a half-baked understanding of how it should perform.

## Retrospective
Looking back on this term and learning the web dev experience, I can see the challenges posed by trying to teach a full stack course in 10 weeks. Coming into the term with zero web development experience (I have a static Jekyll site hosted on Github pages but I don't count that. I wrote zero code for it, instead using a template), I was very lost for a long, long time. I still would not be comfortable calling myself a full stack developer but at least now I have an idea of how everything works together and can begin refining my abilities further.

Working with a team was nice. There are not many opportunities to do so in the university setting (specifically, working on a collaborative codebase. Group projects are common enough but the work involved is still usually individual) and it was a fun learning experience setting up version control and branch protections. It was also a taste of open-source style contibuting without having to sift through hundreds of "good first issues" on Github until finding one that is actually feasible for a first timer. I think if I was to do a project like this in the future, we would be well-served to adopt an Agile process in the beginning where we outline the stakeholders, the requirements, and the timeline and then separate out user stories that we can then assign to each team member. This way we all get experience with all parts of the "full stack" and there is more accountability while at the same time removing the risk of the project getting blocked by a single component.

Even without using a modern software development cycle, we had a fairly uncomplicated collaboration experience. We were lucky to have good communication among team members and the use of CI protections from the very beginning prevented (most) merge conflicts.

# Logan Peticolas

I started work on the backend early May.  Most of the code worked perfectly opioid from Doggr, so there wasn’t entirely a lot of changes needing to be made.  My primary issue was reviewing how each component worked and integrated.  I probably ended up reviewing the lectures and looking up tutorials more than actual programming.  Early changes include changing the definitions of a user and adjusting routes were the main.  Then throughout May I would work on small changes locally that ended up not being necessary.  

Mid-late May I encountered a local bug that caused a crash on every compile.  I ended up finding out that my new install included an outdated version of NPM.. it turns out that the version in Ubuntu’s package manager is so old that it cannot be updated and needs to be removed and installed NOT using apt install.  
Once Sean was completed with the front end, I then worked with him, focussing mainly on familiarizing myself with html/css and the flow between the components.  At this point I noticed a few errors and have been working on understanding the cause and how to fix.


